This is a list of all changes I make to the game script and why.

1, Rival's team composition has changed.  He will have a completely different team depending on your starter and his team will grow organically to meet the needs of his team, based on what he could have caught at that point.
2, Pewter City.  The guy doesn't walk you to the gym because I'm lazy.
3, Route 24.  Added a level 20 Arbok to the Rocket's team at the end of the bridge.  I want Team Rocket to be less of a joke, since they are actually working behind the scenes to try to save the world and you keep ruining their plans because you're awesome.  Unless you've already faced Misty, this will be the biggest, scariest thing you've fought so far.  It flows much better with him trying to recruit you by force and then having a big, powerful pokemon, than the original where he just has a level 15 Ekans and a level 15 Zubat.  Also, Arboks don't naturally occur until level 23, but you have to remember that this guy is a major recruiter, so he's good at nurturing talent.
4, Cerulean City.  Guy who explains what badges do instead tells you that they don't do anything, because I've removed all benefits and badge restrictions from the game.  Gym leaders also don't talk about benefits of badges, because there aren't any anymore.
5, Sailor who says that his father said that there are 100 kinds of pokemon increased to 1000, to better reflect how many pokemon there actually are in this game.
6, Rival's team on S.S. Anne dramatically increased in power.  The S.S. Anne functions very much like a dungeon and it's only fitting for it to have a boss.  Also, I want him to feel like an actual rival who could become the champion, instead of some snotty kid.
7, Dramatically increased the power of Surge's team.  He now has 2 level 22 Voltorbs that both know Selfdestruct.  This is to show the player that there are reasons to not lead with your sweeper.  Then he has a level 24 Electabuzz, which only knows GROWL, LEER, THUNDERSHOCK, and RAGE, but he has a very high stat block for this level.  Then he has a level 27 Bulbachu to deal with RAZOR LEAF, SWIFT, THUNDERSHOCK, and THUNDER WAVE to deal with you inevitably bring a type ground to the party.  Then he has a level 28 Raichu that knows SWIFT, BODY SLAM, THUNDERBOLT, and SUBMISSION, because fuck you.
8, Made the guy on the couch in Lavender Town Pokemon Center reference Cu- Pokemon, because all of them wear skulls.
9, Slightly changed dialog in Lavender Town to provide more context on the background story.  Added note about how I changed X [stat] items to clear debuffs in addition to buffing.
10, Drastically changed trainer battles in Lavender Tower.
11, Replaced some dialog that talked about trading in Celadon City, because trading isn't in Fusion, aside from NPC interactions.
12, Added NPC in Celadon Department Store who warns you that using an element stone causes most pokemon stop learning moves.
13, Added MOON STONE and TRADE STONE to Celadon Department Store.  Since there are more than 4 pokemon in the game that require a MOON STONE to reach their final form, MOON STONEs are now infinite.
